HIIIIII STRONG PASSWORDS! WWHY?
AAIt is VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into their account is VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into theiris VERY important for every user to use very strong passwords to AVOID hackers from hacking into their.But the major problem is remembering these passwords.It is not easy to remember a password unless it makes sense or can be related to something.As a result several users use small and easy passwords which are prone to dictionary attacks or they write it down on papers or store them somewhere, which if found by someone else can be misused.
ANY SOLTION TO THE PROBLEM? YES!
Psychologists have proved that the brain can remember or recall tasks and images than sentences.As a result sequence of images are used for users to remember their passwords instead of them having to remember their password. Suppose a user had to remember an eight character password like 'w8KiJ72c', each character in the password is related to an image/picture which the user can easily recall.
STEPS
1.	Whenever a user tries to sign up to a website, the user's password is auto generated like the above example, 'w8KiJ72c'.
2.	For EVRY letter in the password, a set of images is displayed in which exactly one image matches or is related to the character. For instance, the first character in the password is 'w' and the images could be dog, house, water, airplane, sky and birds, out of which water is the only one related. So this way the user can remember.
ADVANTAGES
1.	A sequence of pictures is memorable than a sequence of characters.
2.	Pictures are independent from user's language.
3.	There do not exist yet special dictionaries for a dictionary attack and it is very difficult to be constructed (especially for graphical passwords that have a very large password space).
4.	Automated attacks are difficult to take place.
TYPES OF GRAPHICAL PASSWORDS
Graphical passwords are mainly classified into three types, Cognometric, Locimetric and Drawmetric.
1.	Cognometric graphical password strategy: In this method, first users are trained to remember the image associated with the password. A description about the image or a story related to it is made to be read by the user.
Example: Passfaces and Déjà vu.
2.	Locimetric graphical password strategy: In Locimetric schemes, the user is presented with a single image, and he/she must click on regions of the image corresponding to his/her password.
An inherent disadvantage to this scheme is that users are given the freedom to choose the points of interest in the picture. This often means that these points will be the most obvious part of the picture, especially if the picture is sparse (i.e. contains only one object or person). Although it would still take much more time to systematically try every combination of possible points of interest in the picture, avoiding the obvious ones increases security greatly.
Example: Android phones pattern locking.
3.	Drawmetric graphical password strategy: rely on users drawing shapes, figures, or doodles, but these are often difficult for computers to authenticate. In addition, this method relies on recall rather than pure recognition, the user having to completely recreate something (one of the weaknesses of traditional alpha-numeric passwords), and so this scheme is rarer than Cognometric and Locimetric schemes.

CONCLUSION
Graphical passwords are an alternative to textual alphanumeric password since they satisfy both conflicting requirements that are easy to remember and hard to guess. By the solution of the shoulder surfing problem, it becomes more secure and easier password scheme. It is a technique that is still not widely used and the current GUI techniques are still immature.
